>> Hello.
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
And I do want to welcome
you to "Living In Balance."
I have a fascinating
program for you today.
We recently took a
journey to the mountains
of North Carolina.
We visited the Ascension
Academy and met
an order of monks, the Ishayas.
They date back in time.
They are ancient.
And they have a message
for the new millennium.
And we're going to share
that with you today.
Come join us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Wonderful and
fascinating information.
There is a whole array
of books, much more
than I've been able
to read, but I'm
in a middle of two of
them right now, and tapes,
also, too, about ascension.
And so I do have
with us two women who
are monks, teachers,
of the Ishaya
information and the order.
So I'd like to welcome Parama.
>> Thank you.
>> And Ananta.
>> Wonderful to
have you with us.
>> Pleasure to be here.
>> Now, I said I have in front
of me here this whole array
of books.
And I'm in the middle of a
wonderful adventure called
"First Thunder," and I
can't wait to finish it.
But also, I've been
listening to the tapes.
And I'm learning quite a bit.
But I said, I have
a lot of questions.
My first question
might be, ascension,
could you define
ascension for us?
>> Simply what ascension is--
and the way I describe it--
is for us to rise above our
limitations and our boundaries.
Most people when they
think of ascension
think they're
leaving their body,
or they're going
to another world.
And it's to have a full human
experience in this reality.
And the Ishayas' ascension
offers a way and a means
and techniques to achieve that.
>> Yeah.
>> To have the
experience here and now.
>> And so you do ascend, Ananta,
is the terminology that you use
when you go into the
process, which is not unlike
a meditation, but it is more.
And it is different than that.
>> It is.
And you do it with your
eyes open or closed.
The great part I
find about it is it
brings you right to this moment.
And when you do that, you leave
all these different behavior
patterns and reactions
behind, and are present now,
and experience now.
>> Yes.
>> And be fully human here.
And it's amazing how much we
move beyond our limitations.
>> Well, I called a friend
yesterday who has taken
the first attitude, I believe.
>> Our first class.
>> It's the first class.
And she said, oh, I don't
nearly have as much time
as I would like to ascend.
And she kind of
giggled, because it
does sound a little
presumptuous when
you're not into the terminology
that you are ascending.
And I loved it when
we went to visit you,
and you said, now, we do ascend
between 4:00 and 6:00 PM.
>> Right.
>> But when you understand
the purpose behind it,
I think that that would be one
of the things that would be
helpful.
It is a message
that you're bringing
for the new millennium,
because it is time
that we, as a human race, look
to more positive, and more
healing, and more
helpful ways of dealing
with others of mankind.
Is that kind of part of
the purpose of learning
the ascension, Ananta?
>> Yeah.
It's just really being--
what is enlightenment?
It's being truly ourselves
without the past behavioral
patterns that we
don't even realize
that we're reacting from.
>> Well, let's talk a little
bit about the wonderful academy,
because you do teach there.
We have some photographs.
And we started with the castle.
And you'll be able to
see on the monitor.
It's a beautiful center.
As I said, you called
it Shangri-La or Mecca.
And here we have on the
monitor the beautiful structure
where people come together to
eat, and some of the classes
are with angels in the front.
And MSI is the energy behind it.
He was the founder of or
brought the information to you.
Is that--
>> That is correct.
Yeah.
>> And you said
he liked castles.
>> He loves castles.
In his former life,
he was an architect.
And he loved to build castles.
And this was the first
castle on the property.
>> And the property
is 40 acres about.
>> Approximately 40 acres.
Beautiful rolling
land, fruit trees,
and lots of
dormitories and housing
facilities for the teachers,
and the teachers' trainees.
>> We have another photo.
And this is of some of
the teachers, monks,
and the differentiation between.
We can see them.
They're all greeting us from
the side of the castle there.
All dressed in red,
black, or white.
And people are either
teachers and/or monks
that are at the academy.
Is that--
>> Largely, the teachers.
There are trainees, people
who've taken the workshop
and decide that this is
what they want to do.
And they come forward
to be a teacher.
It's not required that you're
a monk to be a teacher.
But as we evolve,
as the stress starts
falling off, the different
belief systems that we live by,
we get more in touch
with who we truly are
and what we truly want.
And it seems like
more and more of them
are just becoming monks.
>> Well, you've said you've
dedicated your life to it
you've found that it
was very important.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah.
>> And people have this
connotation or what they think
a monk looks like.
And when sometimes
people see us, they say,
you don't look like
those bald-head monks
we expect to see.
And it's a dedication, what
we dedicate our lives to.
We dedicate our lives to god,
and to healing of humanity.
That may sound
real big and lofty.
And the healing starts with
the healing of ourselves.
And this is what we do.
We go out as teachers, but
we're students all the time.
And it just expands
our consciousness,
and lets us know
who we truly are.
And that's the great
adventure of life.
>> And you have centers
all over-- internationally,
and throughout the
United States, Ananta.
>> Yes, we do.
Japan, Australia, England,
and in this country,
here in Florida,
Minneapolis, Seattle.
>> And you teach from Dallas.
You just teach
wherever the need is,
and the centers are created.
>> You build it.
We come.
>> Well, I think it's a--
if it is a lofty ideal,
I think it's fabulous.
I love people who've dedicated
themselves to healing mankind.
We need it.
>> And it's so much fun.
And it's so easy.
>> Well, I also want to show--
there's some really fun things
from the center, the academy.
And the dome, you
are on Biodome Drive.
And I love this dome.
It's beautiful.
It's huge.
And I think there are
plants now growing inside.
And there's a variety of things
that go on at the academy.
Among the things you
said are the teaching,
but also you have gardens.
>> And hopefully the
biodome will be turned
into a hydroponic growing area.
>> Excellent idea.
We have another photo of
us visiting you there.
And also, your
significant other, and he
is also dressed in white.
You didn't know
he would be on it.
>> Oh my god.
He's going to hate it.
He just ran in.
He'd just woken from ascending.
>> Oh, he was wonderful.
We liked him.
Yes.
>> I like him, too.
>> You like him
really well, too.
I like that.
Yeah.
So you monks can have
relationships, and that's nice.
>> Right.
>> So we're not strict.
There are rules.
No rules.
>> No, no rules.
If you want to make rules
and make it hard, that's OK.
>> OK.
>> Each one of us
creates in the moment.
And that's what's so exciting.
>> Yes.
Well, I love this.
How long have you
been involved, Ananta?
>> Actually, Par and I
both at the same time.
We got started back
in the summer of '96.
And we're still with it.
>> Yes.
>> As we're called to this.
>> Now, you had a life before.
And what did you do?
What was your background?
Or what brought you to--
>> I was in the health field.
And what I started
finding with clients
is that different
body symptomologies,
no matter what you do
and help them with it,
they keep reoccurring, because
it was something fundamental.
Someone had to change
within themselves.
And once they make a shift, then
the whole symptomologies stop.
>> Yes.
>> It was if I truly wanted
that desire to be a healer,
then how am I going
to help them do that?
>> Yes.
>> I was just putting
another Band-Aid on.
And actually, that's how
I got to North Carolina.
From that aspect, it
was like, what next?
>> Yes.
>> Because everything I was
doing seemed to come to a halt
with that realization.
>> And you came from the
alternative healing side.
So both of you were
healers before,
but your background was--
>> Well, I had a practice
in Chinese medicine.
I was a diplomat in homeopathy,
classical homeopathy.
You name it-- reiki, shiatsu,
past life regression,
healing with sound
and frequency.
I can't even remember.
>> You just did it all, all of
those possible ways of healing
people.
And you found that
there was still
something missing there, too.
>> I knew intrinsically in my
heart that people could heal
themselves.
>> Yes.
And that's exciting.
>> And people as
healers assist people.
And with the Ishayas'
ascension, you
can take somebody to the door.
And with the
ascension attitudes,
it takes them right
through the door.
>> We have another
beautiful shot.
And this is of the sacred pool.
And this is where you've
actually done baptismals.
And we're looking
down a mountainside.
And people also sit in that
very tranquil place and ascend,
which is a quiet, again,
meditation, but not quite
a meditation.
>> It's a combination of
a prayer and meditation.
>> OK.
>> That's how I look at it.
And it doesn't have to be quiet.
You can do it in the
airport with your eyes open,
driving a car.
It's not structured
in any sense.
>> But it has changed
your lives dramatically.
>> Absolutely.
Yes, yes.
I'm living in a world of
magic, the magic of now,
and creation, and every moment.
It's like people want
to make appointments.
And I like to know sometimes
what's going to happen.
But it's got to
be in the moment.
>> You've said that as we
visited with you there.
And you said that
a couple of times
in a couple of different ways.
But it's that "Be here now.
Be in the present.
Be in the moment."
And that's how you
are living your life,
because what we've been
taught from ancient times
is that it's always OK
right there in the minute.
Life is very good
right in that moment.
>> Oh, it's precious.
>> We're not worrying,
and we're not fearful
if we're in the moment
and experiencing it.
>> Yes.
And for me, my life used
to be fear and worry.
I had the biggest list.
I'm sure I can compare
it with anybody.
>> And you could
choose peace instead.
Well, we have a little
miracle of an angel
we're going to share with
them the next time, and also
some beautiful scenes of
a wedding from the center.
But I also want you to
explain a little bit more
about the concepts
of the attitude.
So we will talk in the
next segment about that.
So if you will stay
tuned, we will be back
with the Ishaya teachers
of the ascension.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you are just
joining us, we are
talking with two Ishaya monks.
And they are two
beautiful women who
get to spend time in a
wonderful academy that
is in the mountains of North
Carolina, where we did visit.
We are talking about ascension.
And we are looking at
that word differently.
A message that was brought
from ancient times,
and it actually is techniques
that are brought, I understand,
from Jesus through St. John.
And those writings have
been hidden until we're
ready for them as a society.
Is that part of the
history of this?
>> That is part of the history.
And it seems what's happening
in this new millennium,
people's hearts are opening
so rapidly and so easily.
And with the Ishaya's
ascension, it
allows people to open
their hearts even more.
And in ancient times,
people talked about love,
and we talk about
love all the time now.
>> Yes.
>> And yet it was a
really loving time.
And what we're finding
now is that people
are opening their hearts.
And the vibration of the
universe and who we truly are
is love.
And these techniques
help us remember that.
>> And that's really what it is.
It's techniques.
And they said the
teachings of Jesus
were actually like techniques.
And so you have really put it
in a logical order where people
can benefit from the teachings.
And the word is
ascension, but we're
talking about spheres,
attitudes, and techniques.
Is that kind of
the way this falls?
And you can teach people
how to progress along
their spiritual path
toward enlightenment.
>> All teachings point
to your own heart.
And all knowledge is within.
And it's just covered up.
We are always in touch
with the infinite.
And we don't always
recognize that.
These techniques help
break down those walls
so that we do know that.
It's our full experience.
Not something we
think or believe,
because there's nothing--
none of the stuff that we
talk about in ascension
has anything to do
with the belief system.
It's going beyond that
to a true experience
of knowing who we are.
>> So you don't have to believe
in anything is what you said.
You don't have to
believe in the concepts,
but you have to be open.
>> Well, one of the
prerequisites is to be
innocent.
>> Ah, OK.
>> And where do we
learn the easiest?
It's when we're children,
when we're innocent, when we
want to know all the answers.
And this is what we
perpetuate through our lives,
asking those questions, and
never getting the answers.
Because it's hidden beneath
so many experiences,
that we've had our lives--
that we've defined our
lives by, and we are not
those experiences.
We are truly the infinite
and the unbounded.
And when you learn to ascend
and use the techniques,
that gets uncovered.
The beautiful treasure
who we are gets--
it's like we always love those
stories looking for the hidden
treasures.
We're the treasures.
And everything is within us.
>> Now, the philosophy
is-- and I listened--
you have a free tape that
you share with people,
anyone who'd like to
know more about it.
And a couple of the people
who were talking on it
referred back to the
course in miracles,
and made references back to all
behaviors either come from fear
or come from love.
But as far as the
philosophy, how would you
explain it as far as--
does it align with the
course of miracles?
Does it align with
other philosophies?
Or how would you state
the background of it?
Who might be interested in
learning these techniques.
>> There's only one truth.
And we just interpret it
through our nervous systems
from our different
past experiences
so that it looks
a particular way.
As I was saying before, it
points back to our own hearts.
And the truth is there.
And by using our techniques,
it just brings us back
to our own hearts.
And the truth is there.
So you start finding that
some beliefs we've had,
which is from a belief.
It had no validation
in it at all,
because there is one truth.
And we experience that.
And that's what we saw it
coming from, instead of coming
from the different lies of our
past beliefs and judgments.
>> Well, everyone was smiling
and seemed very much at peace
where we were.
There was a very special thing
that happened in the winter.
And we have a photograph
of an angel, an ice angel,
that just simply appeared.
And you said that there
are magical things that
happen all the time
at the academy,
at the Ascension Academy.
>> And throughout life.
>> Yes.
Sometimes they manifest,
though, as ice angels.
>> That was something--
sometimes they're a little more
dramatic.
And this ice angel happened
to be photographed by Ananta.
>> Oh, you are the photographer.
>> I just happened to
have a camera that day.
That's all.
>> She did a really--
>> It was really
quite by surprise,
if I can talk about
it a little bit.
>> Oh, go right ahead.
>> There is a waterfall
right where this angel is.
We have a little pond.
And it was just around the fall.
So in the evening it
freezes over a little bit.
And the water just started
dripping on some dead branches,
or just by the side.
And just by chance
two of the teacher
trainees had been walking along.
And out of the corner of
their eye they looked over,
and they saw it.
It was like-- and
it was amazing.
As you can see from
the picture, it almost
looked like it was
actually carved.
It had feathers on it,
and the head, the wings.
And it was actually just a
branch that was holding--
it just happened to be
there by the waterfall.
>> I know.
It was just incredible.
Had one tried to
carve an angel, they
could not have done any better.
>> The perfect
folds of the dress.
>> Yes.
>> It's amazing.
>> And the feathers showed.
>> And you shared with
us-- and I love this part,
because this is a spiritual
community where people come
to learn.
And some live there, and
some come just to be trained.
But there were a lot--
in your scrapbook
that you were sharing, there
were a lot of weddings.
And so a lot of people
are finding connections
through Ishaya, it would appear.
And there's a beautiful wedding
scene that we can see here.
Apparently, they're
people of like mind
who are drawn together
who are finding
that this serves them well.
>> Absolutely.
And there are people
that come as couples.
And sometimes it serves
them to separate.
And there are people
that find themselves,
and they find another mate.
And we have Ishaya weddings.
And it's a wedding of soul
and spirit for eternity.
And it is-- the first time I
experienced one of the weddings
there, it just blew me away.
It's just beautiful.
>> Well, how lovely.
Now, how do you like-- and
do you stay at the academy
most of the time, Ananta,
or do you travel a lot?
>> All the teachers are based at
the academy in North Carolina,
but we do travel out.
And we do stay at the
centers for several months
at a time, especially
internationals.
So we do go back there.
It is our home base, but
we are all over the place.
>> Yes.
What is it like?
There are so many
spiritual communities
that people are finding like
mind, gathering together,
especially in North Carolina.
How do you like that,
being with other people who
are on a similar path and who
are ascending together and so
forth?
What is it like to live
in what I consider to be
like a spiritual community?
>> It's very different.
It's very different.
Actually, it's quite
rewarding in the sense
that you have an opportunity
of utopia, where that magic is.
We all seem to want that.
And we never seem to be able
to create that in our lives.
And then you find one
where everybody has
the same experience of the one.
And that's what
we're drawing on.
It's not a belief,
so you don't have
a lot of different
contradictions,
in the sense that everybody
has an experience.
And they can be
truly themselves.
So you don't have to
behave in a particular way.
You just have to be yourself.
>> And when you come back
out into the other world,
do you have a culture
shock every time?
Or do you bring so much
of that peace with you
when you come back?
>> Well, we have the opportunity
to use the Ishaya's ascension
attitudes with our
eyes open all the time.
It's a choice to
be in the moment.
And whatever experience we
have, we have that experience.
>> Now, when you say Ishaya
attitudes, praise, gratitude,
and love are three.
And those attitudes
we can all share.
Those are basic to human kind.
>> Absolutely.
And what has happened
in our society
is that we're run by our minds.
And so many thoughts
go through our minds.
And in the tape, you'll hear
that every thought creates
a universe.
And why not create a
universe that we want
and create through praise,
gratitude, and love?
That's the truth.
And using the attitudes
keeps one in the moment.
The past is gone.
The future is yet to unfold.
The only thing that is real,
supposedly real, is the moment.
And you stay in the moment
by using and choosing
the attitude of truth,
praise, gratitude, and love.
It's really very simple.
>> It does sound basic, Ananta
to human life, to the human.
>> It seems like
everybody, except humans,
have done the point of praising.
It's the humans that
seem to find everything
wrong with everything in
the real world, everything
that's occurred in their lives.
You've judged
everything so harshly,
instead of giving
praise, and gratitude,
and just loving every
experience we have.
>> It does sound
simple, does it not?
>> It does.
>> Yes.
>> It's our natural--
it's who we really are.
>> Yeah.
>> And we've covered it up
with our judgments and boxed
ourselves up so that we feel
all wrapped up and tied up,
and under so much pressure
and ready for breakdowns.
And for what, when
life is really easy.
>> Yes.
Well, you are sharing
gratitude, praise, and love.
And we do appreciate that.
If you would like to be
in touch with the Ishayas,
they also will
offer to you a tape
that you might want to learn
more about the ascensions.
And just stay tuned.
We'll let you know how
you can be in touch
with them, and with us.
We would love to hear from you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Praise, gratitude, and love.
Well, you can't go
wrong with that, can we?
So we have visited
the Ishaya order.
And if you have enjoyed
it, hopefully, there
was a message in there
that can remind you
that praise, gratitude, and love
can help you to live in balance
in mind, body, spirit.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]